index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Home
description: >
  Hi there! I'm Alex Gude, a physicist and data scientist in Silicon Valley.
  This site is where you can find my thoughts on machine learning, data
  science, technology, and more!
---

# Hi there!

I'm **Alex Gude**, a data scientist with a passion for plots and algorithms,
but also cycling and photography. I got my start in the valley at [Insight
Data Science][insight]. In my previous life, I was a high energy particle
physicist at CERN and a [cosmologist][scp] at Lawrence Berkeley Labs.

[insight]: https://www.insightdatascience.com
[scp]: http://supernova.lbl.gov

I write about whatever catches my attention [here on this site][blog]; mostly
that means data science, machine learning, deep learning, and software
development related topics. My writings on deep learning from my time at Lab41
can be found at [Gab41][gab41] and [rehosted on this page][lab41_posts]. If
you're interested in my thoughts in real time (as well as sneak peaks at what
I'm writing), follow me at _@{{ site.author.twitter }}_ on <a rel="me"
href="https://twitter.com/{{ site.author.twitter }}">Twitter</a> and <a
rel="me" href="https://{{ site.author.mastodon_instance }}/@{{
site.author.mastodon }}">Mastodon</a>, or at the handle <a rel="me"
href="https://bsky.app/profile/{{ site.author.bluesky }}">_@{{
site.author.bluesky }}_ on BlueSky</a>.

[blog]: {% link blog/index.html %}
[gab41]: https://gab41.lab41.org/@Alex.Gude
[lab41_posts]: {% link topics/lab41.md %}

The code that I write lives on my <a rel="me" href="https://github.com/{{
site.author.github }}">Github page</a>. Check it out! Bug reports and pull
requests welcome!

## Recent Writings

Below you can find my most recent articles and projects; older ones can be
found [here][blog]:

{% include front_page_feed.html %}

Commit message:

Link to both book and blog articles

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Home
description: >
  Hi there! I'm Alex Gude, a physicist and data scientist in Silicon Valley.
  This site is where you can find my thoughts on machine learning, data
  science, technology, and more!
---

# Hi there!

I'm **Alex Gude**, a data scientist with a passion for plots and algorithms,
but also cycling and photography. I got my start in the valley at [Insight
Data Science][insight]. In my previous life, I was a high energy particle
physicist at CERN and a [cosmologist][scp] at Lawrence Berkeley Labs.

[insight]: https://www.insightdatascience.com
[scp]: http://supernova.lbl.gov

I write about whatever catches my attention [here on this site][blog]; mostly
that means data science, machine learning, deep learning, and software
development related topics. My writings on deep learning from my time at Lab41
can be found at [Gab41][gab41] and [rehosted on this page][lab41_posts]. If
you're interested in my thoughts in real time (as well as sneak peaks at what
I'm writing), follow me at _@{{ site.author.twitter }}_ on <a rel="me"
href="https://twitter.com/{{ site.author.twitter }}">Twitter</a> and <a
rel="me" href="https://{{ site.author.mastodon_instance }}/@{{
site.author.mastodon }}">Mastodon</a>, or at the handle <a rel="me"
href="https://bsky.app/profile/{{ site.author.bluesky }}">_@{{
site.author.bluesky }}_ on BlueSky</a>.

[blog]: {% link blog/index.html %}
[gab41]: https://gab41.lab41.org/@Alex.Gude
[lab41_posts]: {% link topics/lab41.md %}

The code that I write lives on my <a rel="me" href="https://github.com/{{
site.author.github }}">Github page</a>. Check it out! Bug reports and pull
requests welcome!

## Recent Writings

Below you can find my most recent articles and book reviews; older articles
and be found [here][blog] and older book reviews can be found [here][books]:

[books]: {% link books/index.md %}

{% include front_page_feed.html %}
