_books/echopraxia.md, before:

---
date: 2024-04-19
title: Echopraxia
book_author: Peter Watts
series: Firefall
book_number: 2
rating: 5
image: /books/covers/echopraxia.jpg
---

<cite class="book-title">{{ page.title }}</cite> is the second book in Peter
Watts's Firefall series, although it takes place roughly at the same time as
{% include book_link.html title="Blindsight" %}. It follows parasitologist
Daniel Brüks as he gets dragged into a conflict between multiple transhuman
factions, travels to the Icarus station orbiting the sun, and back to Earth.

{% capture this_book %}<cite class="book-title">{{ page.title }}</cite>{% endcapture %}
{% capture blindsight %}{% include book_link.html title="Blindsight" %}{% endcapture %}

The world Watts built in {{ blindsight }} was enthralling, and the scientific
and philosophical arguments about consciousness were fascinating. I **loved**
it. {{ this_book }} expands on the exceptional worldbuilding of its
predecessor while focusing on the ideas of god, godhood, free will, and the
place of humans in a transhuman world. It is a fantastic sequel, possibly even
better than the first.

The Major characters are:

- Daniel Brüks, a parasitologist and baseline human who has decided against
  getting any enhancements.

- Jim Keaton, Siri Keaton's (from {{ blindsight }}) father and a human
  soldier.

- Rakshi Sengupta, an augmented human who servers as a backup pilot for the
  ship.

- The Bicamerals, a hivemind composed of people who have edited their brains
  and who discover scientific advancements through apparently religious means.
  Their interpreter is a slightly modified human, Lianna Lutterodt.

- Valerie, a vampire escaped from an academic lab on a mission to free her
  people. Along for the ride are her four zombie soldiers.

- Portia, an alien computer--slime-mold sent by _Rorschach_ to Icarus.

The novel is full of Christian imagery, augmenting its theme of
transcendentalism and digital theology:

- Valerie is a Moses figure: she is trying to free her people from slavery,
  and she first appears in the desert under a pillar of flame (the
  Bicamerals's tornado seen through night-vision goggles).

- Vampires have a "crucifix glitch" used to keep them controlled.

- The ship used by the Bicamerals is the Crown of Thorns. _Rorschach_ from {{
  blindsight }} is in the shape of a crown of thorns.

- Heaven "exists" as a virtual reality world people retreat to.

- Resurrection---or at least the continuation of life after death---with the
  snake Brüks samples in the desert, the Zombies, and Brüks himself after he
  is infected by Portia.

Parasites and biology are also central themes. Brüks studies parasites, but in
some ways, he is one as the weakest member of the group and one forced to hide
for his safety. Humans, too, are like parasites, trying to survive among much
more powerful transhumans. And Portia, the alien smart matter sent by
_Rorschach_ to Icarus, traps and studies the other characters in the book just
like Brüks does to the animals he studies in Oregon.

{{ this_book }} received mixed reviews from others compared to the universally
rave reviews for {{ blindsight }}, primarily because people thought it was
even more confusing. While it's true that the narrator, Brüks, is the person
with the least idea of what is going on, I found the plot not too hard to
follow. All the mysteries are eventually revealed and explained if you pay
attention. So far, {{ this_book }} is my favorite read of the year.

Commit message:

Add loss paragraph to echopraxia
⠀⠀⠀⣴⣴⡤
⠀⣠⠀⢿⠇⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢰⢷⡗
⠀⢶⢽⠿⣗⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⣼⡧⠂⠀⠀⣼⣷⡆
⠀⠀⣾⢶⠐⣱⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⣤⣜⣻⣧⣲⣦⠤⣧⣿⠶
⠀⢀⣿⣿⣇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠛⠿⣿⣿⣷⣤⣄⡹⣿⣷
⠀⢸⣿⢸⣿⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠈⠙⢿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿
⠀⠿⠃⠈⠿⠆⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠹⠿⠿⠿

⠀⢀⢀⡀⠀⢀⣤⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡀⡀
⠀⣿⡟⡇⠀⠭⡋⠅⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢰⣟⢿
⠀⣹⡌⠀⠀⣨⣾⣷⣄⠀⠀⠀⠀⢈⠔⠌
⠰⣷⣿⡀⢐⢿⣿⣿⢻⠀⠀⠀⢠⣿⡿⡤⣴⠄⢀⣀⡀
⠘⣿⣿⠂⠈⢸⣿⣿⣸⠀⠀⠀⢘⣿⣿⣀⡠⣠⣺⣿⣷
⠀⣿⣿⡆⠀⢸⣿⣿⣾⡇⠀⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣗⣻⡻⠿⠁
⠀⣿⣿⡇⠀⢸⣿⣿⡇⠀⠀⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠁

_books/echopraxia.md, after:

---
date: 2024-04-19
title: Echopraxia
book_author: Peter Watts
series: Firefall
book_number: 2
rating: 5
image: /books/covers/echopraxia.jpg
---

<cite class="book-title">{{ page.title }}</cite> is the second book in Peter
Watts's Firefall series, although it takes place roughly at the same time as
{% include book_link.html title="Blindsight" %}. It follows parasitologist
Daniel Brüks as he gets dragged into a conflict between multiple transhuman
factions, travels to the Icarus station orbiting the sun, and back to Earth.

{% capture this_book %}<cite class="book-title">{{ page.title }}</cite>{% endcapture %}
{% capture blindsight %}{% include book_link.html title="Blindsight" %}{% endcapture %}

The world Watts built in {{ blindsight }} was enthralling, and the scientific
and philosophical arguments about consciousness were fascinating. I **loved**
it. {{ this_book }} expands on the exceptional worldbuilding of its
predecessor while focusing on the ideas of god, godhood, free will, and the
place of humans in a transhuman world. It is a fantastic sequel, possibly even
better than the first.

The Major characters are:

- Daniel Brüks, a parasitologist and baseline human who has decided against
  getting any enhancements.

- Jim Keaton, Siri Keaton's (from {{ blindsight }}) father and a human
  soldier.

- Rakshi Sengupta, an augmented human who servers as a backup pilot for the
  ship.

- The Bicamerals, a hivemind composed of people who have edited their brains
  and who discover scientific advancements through apparently religious means.
  Their interpreter is a slightly modified human, Lianna Lutterodt.

- Valerie, a vampire escaped from an academic lab on a mission to free her
  people. Along for the ride are her four zombie soldiers.

- Portia, an alien computer--slime-mold sent by _Rorschach_ to Icarus.

The novel is full of Christian imagery, augmenting its theme of
transcendentalism and digital theology:

- Valerie is a Moses figure: she is trying to free her people from slavery,
  and she first appears in the desert under a pillar of flame (the
  Bicamerals's tornado seen through night-vision goggles).

- Vampires have a "crucifix glitch" used to keep them controlled.

- The ship used by the Bicamerals is the Crown of Thorns. _Rorschach_ from {{
  blindsight }} is in the shape of a crown of thorns.

- Heaven "exists" as a virtual reality world people retreat to.

- Resurrection---or at least the continuation of life after death---with the
  snake Brüks samples in the desert, the Zombies, and Brüks himself after he
  is infected by Portia.

Parasites and biology are also central themes. Brüks studies parasites, but in
some ways, he is one as the weakest member of the group and one forced to hide
for his safety. Humans, too, are like parasites, trying to survive among much
more powerful transhumans. And Portia, the alien smart matter sent by
_Rorschach_ to Icarus, traps and studies the other characters in the book just
like Brüks does to the animals he studies in Oregon.

Loss is yet another theme. Brüks lost his wife to heaven; Keaton lost his wife
in the same way, and his son Siri on the mission from {{ blindsight }}; and
Sengupta lost her wife to the virus Brüks simulations failed to catch before
it infected thousands.

{{ this_book }} received mixed reviews from others compared to the universally
rave reviews for {{ blindsight }}, primarily because people thought it was
even more confusing. While it's true that the narrator, Brüks, is the person
with the least idea of what is going on, I found the plot not too hard to
follow. All the mysteries are eventually revealed and explained if you pay
attention. So far, {{ this_book }} is my favorite read of the year.
