_books/the_dreaming_void.md, before:

---
date: 2023-09-26
title: The Dreaming Void
author: Peter F. Hamilton
series: The Void Trilogy
book_number: 1
rating: 5
image: /books/covers/the_dreaming_void.jpg
---

<span class="book-title">The Dreaming Void</span> is set in the same universe
as to Hamilton's Commonwealth Saga
({% include book_link.html title="Pandora's Star" %} and {% include
book_link.html title="Judas Unchained" %}), but saying that isn't
quite strong enough: it is really a sequel. You pretty much must read the
Commonwealth Saga first because half of the characters return, and every major
plot point is spoiled.

<span class="book-title">The Dreaming Void</span> takes place 1200 years after 
{% include book_link.html title="Judas Unchained" %}, but because characters
live forever in the Commonwealth, that's not as long as it seems. The
technology has changed drastically---wormholes and trains are sidelined for
super-spaceships---but the action, pacing, and large cast of characters are
the same.

The plot is another "save the world" thriller: there is a Void at the center
of the galaxy, it is expanding, and it is going to destroy everything if not
stopped.

The book takes place in two locations: in the Commonwealth and in the Void.
The Void chapters follow Edeard, a young boy on a low-tech planet where
everyone has physic powers. Snippets of his life are communicated in dreams
out of the Void to a man named Inigo. Inigo shares the dreams with others,
sowing the seeds of a new religion whose followers desire to join with the
Void (which will destroy the galaxy). The Commonwealth chapters follow several
groups---who mostly work for the various super-AI factions---as they try to
find Inigo to either start or stop the deadly pilgrimage into the Void.

The plot moves quickly outside the Void and every few pages you learn something new and
exciting. The Edeard chapters move more slowly, but each one includes a major
plot-twist the keeps you turning pages.

Commit message:

Some edits
Trying to make the intro pagagraph better, so the summaries extacted are
better.

_books/the_dreaming_void.md, after:

---
date: 2023-09-26
title: The Dreaming Void
author: Peter F. Hamilton
series: The Void Trilogy
book_number: 1
rating: 5
image: /books/covers/the_dreaming_void.jpg
---

<span class="book-title">The Dreaming Void</span> is set in the same universe
as to Hamilton's Commonwealth Saga, but saying that isn't quite strong enough:
it is really a sequel. You pretty much must read the Commonwealth Saga first
because half of the characters return, and every major plot point from the
earlier books is spoiled in this one.

<span class="book-title">The Dreaming Void</span> takes place 1200 years after
{% include book_link.html title="Judas Unchained" %}, but because characters
live forever in the Commonwealth, that's not as long as it seems. The
technology has changed drastically---wormholes and trains are sidelined for
super-spaceships---but the action, pacing, and large cast of characters are
the same.

Unfortunately, the role of some of the old characters feel like fan service.
For example, Paula Myo, the obsessive detective from the previous books,
returns but spends most of the series isolated in her spaceship, interacting
with the storyline only by calling other characters.

The plot is similar to the one from 
{% include book_link.html title="Pandora's Star" %} and {% include
book_link.html title="Judas Unchained" %}. A large cast of characters race to
save the galaxy from the Void at its center, a Void that is expanding and
consuming everything in its path.

The book takes place in two locations: in the Commonwealth and in the Void.
The Void chapters follow Edeard, a young boy on a low-tech planet where
everyone has psychic powers. Snippets of his life are communicated in dreams
out of the Void to a man named Inigo. Inigo shares the dreams with others,
sowing the seeds of a new religion whose followers desire to join with the
Void (which will destroy the galaxy). The Commonwealth chapters follow several
groups---who mostly work for the various super-AI factions---as they try to
find Inigo to either start or stop the deadly pilgrimage into the Void.

The plot moves quickly outside the Void and every few pages you learn
something new and exciting. The Edeard chapters move more slowly, but each one
includes a major plot-twist the keeps you turning pages. This book gets the
series off to a great start.
