_books/the_evolutionary_void.md, before:

---
date: 2023-10-12
title: The Evolutionary Void
author: Peter F. Hamilton
series: The Void Trilogy
book_number: 3
rating: 4
image: /books/covers/the_evolutionary_void.jpg
---

The final book in Hamilton's Void Trilogy, <span class="book-title">The
Evolutionary Void</span>, finishes off the story a little too quickly. The
ending feels rushed.

At the end of {% include book_link.html title="The Temporal Void" %}, Edeard
learns he can reset his world within the Void to a point in the past of his
choosing, allowing him to learn from his mistakes. In <span class="book-title">The
Evolutionary Void</span>, Edeard puts these power to use attempting to
perfecting the timeline.

Edeard brings a time of peace and harmony to his city, but he
soon begins to run into other psychics even more powerful than himself and
without Edeard's moral principles. Edeard is forced to take more and more
drastic actions, including preventing one of the psychics from being born. His
actions change his personality, alienating his friends and family, and finally
convincing him that he must use his own mental powers to dominate the
citizenry in order to bring order. These chapters are tough to read because,
after two books, I had grown attached to Edeard, the hero who never faltered.

Of course, true to his role as the perfect Hero, Edeard realizes his mistakes
and undoes them, living a final, perfect life.

Outside the void is a little more chaotic, but the various storylines start to
weave together until, suddenly, they are all in the right places and save the
universe. It feels about as abrupt as that sentence when reading the book.

Still, there are some satisfying moments, like when Qutax gets revenge against
The Cat[^adama], and all the mysteries of Edeard's city are revealed.

All and all, the series does not quite meet the expectations set by {% include
book_link.html title="The Dreaming Void" %}, but is still good fun.

[^adama]:
    With a "Reverse Adama Maneuver", raising the High Angel out of a gas
    giant's atmosphere to ambush The Cat's ship.

Commit message:

Some edits
Trying to make the intro pagagraph better, so the summaries extacted are
better.

_books/the_evolutionary_void.md, after:

---
date: 2023-10-12
title: The Evolutionary Void
author: Peter F. Hamilton
series: The Void Trilogy
book_number: 3
rating: 4
image: /books/covers/the_evolutionary_void.jpg
---

The final book in Hamilton's Void Trilogy, <span class="book-title">The
Evolutionary Void</span>, wraps up the series well, but a little too quickly.
All the characters and storylines arrive where they're needed and then the
story is over. It felt a little rushed about more than 2000 pages across three
books.

At the end of {% include book_link.html title="The Temporal Void" %}, Edeard
learns that he can rewind his world to a point of his choosing to get a second
(or third, or forth, ...) chance to do things right. In <span
class="book-title">The Evolutionary Void</span>, Edeard uses this power to try
to make his world perfect.

Edeard brings peace to his city, for a time. Soon he runs into other psychics
with powers even greater than his own. Edeard is forced to take more and more
drastic measures, including stopping one of them from being born, and his
actions weigh heavily on him. This burden alienates him from his friends and
family, and leads to him become the same despot he overthrew earlier. These
chapters are tough to read because, after two books, I had grown attached to
Edeard, the hero who never faltered.

Of course, true to his role as the perfect Hero, Edeard realizes his mistakes
and undoes them, living a final, flawless life.

Outside the void is a little more chaotic, but the various storylines start to
weave together until, suddenly, they are all in the right places and save the
universe. I did not predict the ending this time, unlike for {% include
book_link.html title="Judas Unchained" %}, but in a way that is why it felt
abrupt: it was foreshadowed but more subtlety. Still, there are some
satisfying moments, like when Qutax gets revenge against The Cat[^adama], and
all the mysteries of Edeard's city are revealed.

All and all, the series does not quite meet the expectations set by {% include
book_link.html title="The Dreaming Void" %}, but is still good fun.

[^adama]:
    With a "Reverse Adama Maneuver", raising the High Angel out of a gas
    giant's atmosphere to ambush The Cat's ship.
